the networking in our studio is pretty
epically fast I mean look at this that
is 48 ports of 25 gig networking for our
editors and our ingest stations not to
mention these six 100 Gig uplinks to our
servers but uh watch this why is my
internet broken oh not again Jake why
does this always happen if this one
network switch ever dies or even has an
issue our entire network goes down and
not just here in the studio but also in
the lab and here in Creator Warehouse
which is where our merch team designs
our products and where I do the segue to
our sponsor T get super affordable phone
plans with awesome freebies and
excellent customer service from T they
were rated excellent by over 9,000
unbiased customer reviews on trust pilot
stay tuned to learn more about their
custom plans now In fairness toell even
though we bought this switch on eBay 3
years ago we've never had an outage that
was caused by it or either of our other
Dell switches but the fact that it
hasn't happened yet what the holy
doesn't mean it couldn't happen someday
in the future after all these switches
are basically just really reliable fancy
computers but one reliable point of
failure that's not how we roll
anymore mostly this my friends is how
it's
done oh my God lonus it looks good right
Hey Jake helped I just died inside you
made me feel so bad of the one I did
over there all it needs is some patch
cables and it'll be good as new wait
they made it even better uh-oh I already
saw it before Jake I haven't seen it
like literally at all yeah it's um oh
wow that's that's nice yeah I mean it's
you know it's nothing you know like what
we did oh which is good we made like
lifechanging improvements this is really
just aesthetic it's cosmetic yeah what
is this this is a
yeah they've got that one cable out of
place you see them hiding back there Bo
yeah boo what's this cable here it looks
like it's a special cable the question
now though is not how good does ours
look how good does theirs look that's
not what anybody's interested in
especially us right Jake ours is better
the question is is it all configured
correctly so that I can come in here rip
the power out of this switch and the
whole network stays online can I Stand
On This Server that's fine right but I
mean you're already doing it you guys
ready hold on hold on hold on Jake
you're not going to get more ready in
the next 5 Seconds here we're ready oh
my
God okay let's go find out come on come
on Andy don't cut the
camera hey how's your editing going good
good see you later I honestly have no
idea if you don't even work at that desk
d what are you doing hi is your computer
running it is running then you should go
ahead and catch
it Network
working oh good everything was fine and
nothing bad happens that's normal and
that's what we expect is it actually
working I mean it should work Jak what
of course it's working yeah to be clear
it's better to just have them both
up what I'm just going to put this back
but that was pretty cool right that is
where these come into play and I'm
really excited to tell you about these
new switches but before I can do that
we're going to have to make some room in
the server room oh I make some room in
the other server room that one's going
to be bad to be clear it's not like we
couldn't put the switch is here it's
just that when we specked out this room
we didn't realize we were going to be
putting such long servers into this rack
and we ended up with some clearance
issues with our pdu see look I can't
even use any of the plugs down here oops
fortunately we have a solution this
custom painted orange rack from Hammond
Manufacturing is both wider and
significantly taller than our existing
one is this going to fit in the room oh
boy at least it looks like we have a
plan the rack goes on here and then we
push W yeah those are mint this thing
weighs 350 lb cool oh uh I think this is
not going to work gentlemen new plan
we're putting it on the pallet jack and
we're going outside what could go wrong
I can't see a damn thing oh boy and then
it goes downhill hold on well we may
want to no go for it it's good we're
good we're good okay we've done stupider
things uh yeah we've done stupider
things recently you weren't there for
the 115in TV oh that was really stupid
since we're walking I've got some speeds
and feeds for this thing it's basically
the canyonero of server racks 7 ft tall
30 in wide 48 rack units and it weighs
in excess of 350 lb that's without any
hardware in it what well yes I I well
that's what I asked you guys I didn't
have any plan I planned to hire experts
who would have good plans for how to do
things oh my God are you sure about this
oh yeah if I die make sure you catch it
on camera oh yeah yeah it would clear
just fine no it will clear okay all
right not so
bad okay stop stop stop stop oh okay Mr
it won't move now says oh it's moving
too fast okay fine go
woo all right okay now hold on just a
gosh darn second here holding how is
there going to be room to maneuver this
thing in there is that is the other rat
coming out we didn't think this through
they're not bolted on not bolted no they
feet so there it is right there
defeat don't scratch
[Music]
hey nice wow these casters though this
thing is built better than some houses
it's oh and bigger too don't step on the
door I'm not going to step on the door
God he's literally stepping on the door
I'm not stepping on the door I'm
stepping on the cross braces that are by
the door part of the door well it's
doorish I mean look look at this I got
my full weight on it it's not even doing
anything we can get rid of those cage
nuts immediately we'll be using rack
studs available now LTV store.com o what
was that noise what was that noise it's
a good
noise and yep there we go this is
probably enough space for the other one
right yeah it should be all right whoa
stopping there Cable Management who
needs it see look how useful you are one
two three one two three one two yeah now
you can go to the side just a bit slowly
yeah yeah yeah no no they're good
they're okay now what you guys it takes
up the whole room this is your new
bedroom We Ready boys
barely boy hi there okay shove towards
us
moving okay that's definitely the paint
I think we're going to have a bit of a
Timber moment here I'm trying to get to
Dan okay perfect okay
yeah okay Holy balls this thing is huge
yeah this is ridicul what were you guys
thinking we could have just put two
racks in here you need more rack units
oh we're doing that anyways oh you saw
the other rack right what other racks
there's another one are these yeah yeah
for where
here we're just we're
[Laughter]
just look at the color on that wow it's
got a combination lock on the back oh my
God there's a den inside get get him out
get him out it is really roomy wait this
is the back then this front and back oh
sort of of the back is for patch cables
and stuff
cool Dan used nerd punch it's as
effective as it ever is in all
seriousness though what are we planning
to put in here are we transplanting
everything y so an Dale goes at the
bottom switches and everything goes at
the top and then that one's leaving no
that stays well what's going to go in it
that's going to be the rider rack so
that when Jake wants to mess with all of
our networking gear he doesn't take down
the entire lab and cost you tens of
thousands of dollars a minute wa W wo
woah wo I mean the cost's not that high
okay it's a slight hyperb but you know
and there it is the real reason we're
doing any of this because Jake wants a
play toys
rack cuz we could have made this work I
don't know this is much better I said we
could have made it work any Dale doesn't
even fit in it it's in it right now
barely not all of it we're going to
leave my play things in there which is
like half of it so my it's not actually
that bad yeah but the networking is the
worst part that's why you have Sean and
I yeah I was kind of think can we go do
more fun things than just leave them to
do the grunt work yeah and then it'll be
done
properly at least half of it'll be done
properly you guys
ready yeah look at that that's awesome
oh so easy almost as awesome as this
switch I'm ready to tell you guys a
little bit about it this right here is
the S
5232 f- n it's got 32 ports that run at
100 gbit Each of which can be split out
into 425 G gbit ports it has a total
switching capacity of 3.2 terabit per
second half duplex so 6.4 then
bidirectionally and these things are
massively configurable because when I
say they're going to be the topof rack
switches on both this side and over at
the studio I mean they're going to be a
pair of top oh God that's heavy top no
no I got it I got it a pair of top of
rack switches because the main point of
what we're doing today is to add
resiliency and redundancy to our Network
by the time we're done I'm going to be
able to take one of these rip the
freaking power connector out of it and
the whole Network's going to stay up
right yeah they each have redundant
power supplies wow 750 watts that's not
as much I guess it's just Optics there's
no Poe right yeah that's a lot for not
powering anything else and ooh easily
serviceable fan modules of course it's a
right management
Adele Management Port and and I love the
rails these things come with they're
toolless and super easy to install these
might be the easiest toolless rails I've
ever used 46 and 44 all right Boop yeah
this rack's too tall for me to work in
this is my maximum reach I have to Tippy
Toe is this the work safe approved way
to do
this oh God oh God I can't reach oh God
no I'm kidding I'm kidding I'm kidding I
will I will note that he is standing on
the bottom of the rack to give extra
height I am stabilizing on the bottom of
the rack look here's a banana for scale
yep Linus is still short lt.com
baby oo this might actually be too nice
for us that's why it's sha andiz and you
get the other one got him infrastructure
rack and the rider's rack I'm getting
very close to just requisitioning this
rack as my own man this is a fine rack
but it has super small PP energy next to
this one this side is going to have its
own challenges because as much as we
tried to keep things organized we're
looking at about 8 years of total Tech
debt and Frankenstein Solutions yeah I'd
like recable Managed IT like 3 years ago
but I did it a couple times before that
it always just kind of turns into
spaghetti the good news is in the long
term I think what we're going to do is
move everything around to the front of
the rack and move the Vault and maybe
some of the other servers over here to
the labs side because we've got a nice
fast link that we worked out with the
city between the two buildings now is
this the part where we just start
ripping stuff out uh well Gary kind of
wanted to keep internet but too bad I
guess our transceivers don't come out
Jake oh God yeah that switch got a
little bonked a long time ago and well
in in transit from eBay to us oh great
so now I get to do this to keep our
fibers safe you could just send it and
I'll just clean them after sorry Gary I
unplugged the internet update for you
guys we came up with a brilliant idea
these switches don't have a ton of vlans
conf figured on them but this one does
cuz that runs a bunch of our security
stuff so we figure okay if we just
unplug everything then maybe we can move
this down three notches where it needs
to go according to the plan without
actually unplugging anything yeah good
luck everybody okay you can pull it out
now you ready no no no top one top one
oh sure the top one doesn't have handles
Jake got it yeah there we go we only
need one of these 48 Port 10 gig
switches now so we're going to keep the
original one and then we're going to
hold on to the one below it as kind of a
cold spare pull it out that's fine okay
we were a much smaller company when we
configured all of this and you're quite
sure you don't support the idea of just
having the other room be the main server
room correct wait you're not just
knocking cage nuts into the rack are you
a little bit well Jake come that came
out that's fine okay other side now tell
everyone you're great idea he hates it
when I'm right but he likes it when it
saves him a bunch of work I'm sitting
here going we only Built from both sides
of this rack because we had no space
yeah well now we have space you just
watched us install it so why don't we
just move everything around to the front
and then this is hilarious remember that
switch that we were super concerned
about moving because of all the vlans
well guess
what I just took every cable
painstakingly and plugged it into a
dummy switch for now and then I'm going
to pass them around to the front of the
rack and I'll just be like okay one two
and we'll build it from the front if
it's stupid and it works it's not stupid
yeah I I like this because I've wanted
to do this for in February it will have
been eight years I never did this
because I liked it or I thought it was a
great idea it was always janky we just
didn't have anywhere else in the studio
to put rack down equipment you know the
the main reason I wanted to do the
mother Vault aside from the old one
being Jank was so we had more rack space
so I could eventually do this nice it's
been a long time coming so basically
fiber patch router one router two we
don't have both of them so it'll just be
one of them for now Dell patch Dell
patch Dell patch I think there will not
be enough devices plugged into these two
that we will need two patch panels very
likely only one way to find out do we
just YOLO and hope that it goes well
sure oh hold on there's locks on the
strain reliefs on the power and
everything okay all right jeez man okay
you're good that's my baby yeah yeah
yeah new new
new oneic four the plan today was not to
just Strip This rack but that's done now
what time is it right now it is 2:00 we
have an hour let's go fast oh my God we
need to move all these patch panels now
which is nice uh they're all labeled
which is great except a bunch of them
are not it's all the ones lonus did that
aren't labeled you got that last one
yeah oh yeah that's it okay dummy switch
comes out okay now we start going fast I
love how the payoff for this video is
going to be so much worse than what we
started yeah like the server room is
just like destroyed but one day when sea
and Dan spend 3 days recable managing
this it will be great we have two of our
switches installed we got the Dells
racked in here fiber patch panel we've
got the microti running temporarily to
keep internet running for Gary while we
switch everything over sorry Gary and uh
yeah everything's racking well the lots
of cable management is beautiful and
everything's coming together right Dan
yeah we got the pdus here too which is
great come on oh god oh my god there are
hard drives in that fine all right here
we go
that was not very good I don't even care
that much when you kind of drop a hard
drive now that I remember back to when
you actually yeed a hard drive totally
lived this is such a relief I remember
the conversations back when we decided
to build from both sides of the rack and
we were like well this is the only way
we can fit all the stuff so I guess
we're stuck with it but I hated it then
I hate it now this is so much better
it's almost like we have two server
rooms or something now and the other one
isn't a Harry Potter closet you know
that these stairs are so wide because
this room needed to be wider right M so
what you're saying is this is entirely
your fault yes the issue is that we
realistically couldn't afford more so
I'm not going to apologize for it we cut
all the cabling from the ceiling so now
we have to fix all that cuz it wouldn't
fit we've got all of our networking gear
in here now and the back actually looks
tidy now I'm trying to make up for the
sin that I cost in the ceiling right now
we have Al what used to be Alpha Del
which is our 48 port
s4048 in we're putting these ethernet
patch panels in a spot that is
eventually going to become a like bber
patch panel but we can just pop the
keystones out at that point or rather
Dan and Sean can and then I guess we're
just moving more patch panel like it's
awful I know but it's going to be great
one day this is about to get interesting
we have to put the two new Dell switches
the 32 Port 100 Gig ones here and here
which would be fine if the various
contractors who had come in at various
stages of in this building's history
hadn't made complete spaghetti out of
all the cables going into the patch
panels uh I don't know if they're going
to fit in here I never know quite how
this happens but every time you clean up
a server closet or like a tech room you
find all these things that are not
plugged into anything man this is going
to be awesome being able to like restart
one of your core switches and the entire
network not go down I like and all those
years in the early days Jake using rails
that were not tooless and whatever the
cheapest rack mount stuff that I could
find was I did not know what I was
missing oh well you actually got it in
for once good job yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah these things are flipping crazy
Overkill when Jake told me what we were
getting I was like why we have no
application that actually requires these
but I think really it's less to do with
the speed and more to do with getting
the latest OS and all the latest
features oh I haven't even told you the
long-term plan is pretty cool it
involves having two routers here at the
very least we want want them to be
redundant if our open sense router poops
the bed I have no idea what I just
unplugged the other one takes over
automatically sure the long-term plan is
we have two routers at both buildings
and an internet connection at both
buildings hear me out what I don't want
to pay for two internet connections oh
yeah whatever we'll figure that part out
and then we can use OPF or bgp to like
route the two buildings and if one
internet connection were to go down for
whatever reason we
could assume the other buildings
internet connection over here and vice
versa so redundant internet connection
redundant routers redundant core
switches also these switches are
probably going to be our routers at some
point and then the open sense boxes will
just be a firewall um so cool that
second internet connection better be
just like a basic residential thing yeah
it can't really be I'm not paying for
two internet connections it's not
happening I don't really care I'm good
with my my want can you stop knocking
cage nuts into the wack I mean it's not
as bad as used to be when we had servers
that had the backs of them open all the
time I remember this one time one of the
servers was open it was one of the 45
drives ones and I knocked something into
it and it sparked God oh God and then I
never told anybody and nothing ever
happened but something was dead in it
said the best part of this is that
everything uses rack studs now I can ask
Luke to make it one of their quarterly
goals to take all the old cage nuts out
of here right I think if we had a
networking Esports team like from our
networking and infer department they
should call themselves The Rack studs
license the name it's a great team name
yeah there's definitely an appropriate
amount of patch panels per number of
ports here definitely you mentioned
earlier we're going to transition to
using these new switches as our router
but I think for most of the consumers
out there that doesn't make a lot of
sense but yeah thanks Andy but
Enterprise switches are very powerful
they have very robust operating systems
why would we not setup effort High
reward pretty good but why do people
care about those things for us it's
mostly inter VLAN routing you can
imagine a VLAN it's a virtual Network
it's kind of like you had 20 virtual
routers you could have 20 VLS and 20
networks it's all kind of in one the big
thing is if you want to pass traffic
between networks which maybe that sounds
why do you have them split well
sometimes you want one device to talk to
a device in a different network even
though you don't want all of the devices
to talk like a writer's workstation
being separated from an editor's
workstation well if they both want to
access a server and they're separated
it's got to Passover right now that
would happen on our open sense machine
which it's pretty fast so it's probably
okay but imag you're doing 10 20 GB it's
going to start to become a bottle and
this is just running commodity some kind
of mainstream Zeon processor in it
whereas these switches are running as6
that are flipping optimized for
networking yeah you can imagine it would
do that at line Speed without issue and
the other thing is it will be local so
if that's happening in the lab between
two networks in the lab it doesn't have
to come back to here in the studio it
can happen there so you're it's just way
more efficient also the the internet
connection sharing thing I talked about
earlier but okay here we go sounds like
maybe that's not going to happen
yet oh hi Jak this is
awesome so good it would have taken us
so much longer to do this from the back
we would have gotten to the point where
it's time to plug everything back in and
go oh crap I forgot how hard it is to
reach in here and access the power
outlets on everything just G speaking of
accessing things let me access my Flex
box oh this thing is so cool have showed
you this before yes I did at the land
party yes you did uh Flex Optics aside
from making Optics also makes direct
attached cables we're going to be using
these to interconnect our Dells uh
taking it back to that redundancy thing
for them to be redundant they need to be
connected every device Downstream of
these is now going to be connected to
both so if one switch dies this magical
cable will allow the
connection to Traverse between them but
in order to make sure that these cables
are going to operate with Peak
Performance and reliability you're
supposed to use Dell Optics except that
sounds expensive well they actually sent
us some and then they never arrived cool
the cool thing about Flex Optics you
plug them into here open an app on your
phone and I can type you know Dell 100
Gig 1 M and this becomes Dell 100 Gig 1
meter and you plug it into the switch
the Dell switch doesn't even know that
it's not a Dell cable awesome as far as
it's concerned it's D all right time to
put some servers back in the rack some
crazy Overkill servers so you guys think
it's me driving the completely Overkill
infrastructure that we build around here
but often it's in spite of me I'm at my
if it works don't touch it stage of my
life uh well we got the whole front
patched in all the mvrs are in
everything's patched up everything's
good to go Dan is doing cabling in the
back and all we have left to move over
to the infrastructure rack is anell
which does all of our off-site backups
from Studio so that's all that's left
move that over finish up cleaning the
cabling and then we're pretty much done
here I'm waiting for Studio to come back
up online yeah they took down the whole
building yeah they took down the
internet everything it's all I told I
told Gary 20 minutes it's been two 2
hours or 4 whatever and then yeah anale
and tidying and putting the shelving
away and cleaning up out there I'm
putting the sides back on oh Dam I'm
putting the doors back on it doesn't
look like much right now but man is this
ever easier to work on and we are really
close to being ready to fire this up
these are just all editing workstations
right so I don't have to worry about any
vand nonsense or anything
uh yeah yeah I mean right now this
switch is connected to the router and
it's it's getting the vlans now I'm just
about to connect our ubiquity 48 Port so
we can have Wi-Fi cuz that will make my
life supremely easier also you never
plug the power into it which one
ubiquity you know I've been doing stuff
here okay doesn't look like it I've been
doing lots of stuff he go plug that in
will you I'm working on it come on boy
get it together hey I'm working here oh
Jake went away he wanted to show you
guys something he made a number
two good job Jake good job Wi-Fi is up
okay great all right that's good now
where's the Goddamn Cloud key what was
the problem did we ever figure that out
the problem was they were switched not
switched like Network switched
like hey there we go it adopted and like
remembered it's config now okay great
nice the Wi-Fi definitely works hey guys
hi thought you guys were supposed to be
the professionals our cable management
on the other side looks so much better I
tried really hard our side looks like
actual pasta ah yeah I thought I'd uh
try and absolve myself of this sin yeah
uh no this looks great this is amazing
you know what came in really handy is
these guys here yeah yeah yeah LTT
store.com soon TM Cable
Management boom it holds anything
anywhere it's awesome absolutely
phenomenal yeah especially the big one
you can take like a big old freaking
thing and like all of these are just one
of those yeah exactly that's what I'm
talking about in all seriousness how are
you guys doing here it looks pretty
close yeah we're nearing the end here we
just got to deal with some of these
power cables and then of course get
these back up onto the ceiling sure um
and then I think that's about it okay we
gave up you gave
up I mean we told Gary 20
minutes to take lunch so that we would
be back up and then we immediately moved
the micro tick and got everything ready
so that Gary could continue doing his
job yeah so here's the thing we got
about 30% of the way through and
realized that moving everything at the
back of the rack was going to take way
longer than just pulling everything out
and rebuilding it all from the front so
that when it's time for you guys to UNS
spaghet the thing at least you can see
what the heck you're doing so that's
what we did yeah we are not going to get
the full redundancy that thing up and
running today oh why because it is time
for Jake to go to the airport okay well
we still got Sean and I it's also time
for me to leave okay so we're staying
here till 1: a.m. no oh as long as the
network works we don't need the
redundancy working okay I know I'm
acting all surprised and stuff but it
should work and it does work for a
number of reasons I mean you can see in
the UniFi thing there's only one
Upstream online on all of those switches
right the second one hasn't rebooted yet
every single switch Downstream of the
Dells is connected to both both of them
and then both of the Dells are connected
to that link we have through the street
to the other building yeah and they're
also connected to each other with
something called VT or virtual link
trunking um traditionally you would have
like an lacp or an aggregate link
between two switches well the Dell takes
it up a notch and instead of just
between two switches it's between one
switch and two ones above it and if one
of them goes down you still have the
Redundant link and it just works what's
even cooler is if you have a situ
situation where it's not like the switch
just died entirely it's more like the
fiber got cut or the direct attached
cable is screw and it needs to get
something on a switch that it's not
currently connected to it will like
route over the connection between the
two Dells and back to that switch and
what's even more cool is that it only
took
like 5 minutes to set that feature up
you know what else took only 5 minutes
brainstorming this segue to our sponsor
T are you tired of feeling like you're
stuck in a phone plan that doesn't meet
your needs or is too expensive meet T
Mobile's build your own plan with T's
build your own plan you can create the
perfect phone plan that suits your
lifestyle and your budget with options
like 2 gigs plus unlimited talk and text
for just $10 a month or unlimited
everything for just $25 a month you can
enjoy affordable and flexible plans that
suit your needs but would you believe
that t also throws in freebies like hot
spot Wi-Fi calling and unlimited texting
well you should because they do plus
with international calls to 60 plus
countries and eim included you'll have
everything you need in one plan and for
families T offers individual plans for
each line with no shared balance or
extra cost per line making it easy to
manage multiple lines you can even have
up to 10 lines on one account finally T
offers a referral program where you can
earn 10 T dollars for you and a friend
when they place a successful order with
your unique referral link order online
pop in your T Sim and you're done you
can even keep your phone and number
which makes the switch even easier so
don't wait switch to T today by clicking
the link in the video description if you
guys enjoyed this video you know what go
back and watch one of the previous
attempts at cable managing that room
because believe it or not it was even
worse yeah big shout out to Hammond
Manufacturing for the nice new rack it
is glorious it is glorious shout out to
infinite cables for the cool patch
cables shout out to you it for all the
other switches shout out to Dell for
these switches holy crap these things
are awesome shout out you for watching
yeah and Shout out our infer team and
also Jake and also Jake